Jack was lying in his bed wondering about what he could do tomorrow. He thought he could go to the zoo, he thought he could go to the Park to play football with his friends. Jack just hoped that it was a sunny day so that he could do at least one of those things. In the morning, he asked his Mum and Dad if he could go to the zoo. His parents said that they will think about it. He asked if he could go to the park. They said for the second time that they will think about it. And then he asked them if they could watch the weather for him to see if it was going to be a sunny day. They told him to watch it himself. So he did. The weather said that it was going to be a stormy day and for everyone to stay indoors.
He felt very disappointed that the weather was going to be a complete disaster. He felt like crying so he did. His mum came upstairs because she heard him crying
“What’s wrong Jack”?  she said.
Jack replied, “I’ve asked and asked and asked but nobody is listening to me”.
“What were you asking Jack”?
“I was asking if I could go to the places that I was dreaming about last night”.
The reason that she was asking all these questions was because she wanted to make life better for him.
A few hours later she set to work. She booked a few days off work so that she could play with him and take him to places that he wanted to go. Better things like the park, she was thinking about things like the zoo and to take him to some shops.
The next day she asked Jack if he wanted to go to the zoo. He said that he really wanted to go but his friend was having a party and he really wanted him to go because he was his best friend. So he said that he would go tomorrow. He really had to think about it, it was either his friends or the zoo which he could go any day that he wanted except from school days. But on the other hand his mum did book a week of work for him. Then she asked him if he wanted to go to the shops to buy some things for him and his mum. But that didn’t encourage him either. He still wanted to go to his friend’s house and anyway this is going to be the longest party that he had ever been to. But that was worse for his mum because she wanted to play with him and if he was at his friend’s house all day what was his mum supposed to do without him at home. She had nothing to do. She rang work to see if they would book her back on for the day but they said no because it was half way through the day and at the place where she worked you had to work all day.
The next day Jack got out of bed and went downstairs, there was a big banner up on the wall saying HAPPY BIRTHDAY JACK - he forgot that it was his Birthday! Now that he knew he opened all of his presents.
When he had finished opening his presents, his mum took him to all the places that she talked about yesterday.
